I am just realizing that ANdorid is AI. "The Android OS uses the mainifest to to decide how to integrate your app into the device's overall user experience."

So the OS decides? and androis is an OS? well yes and yes. so programming an android app, is like a very opinionated and strict api for programmers. sounds like you do have limited choices, not so open as other platforms?

FROM READING
Android is
distinguished by the fact that many vendors
are cooperating to provide a non-proprietary
development environment"?
 - the above, how is this distinguished? it sounds like linux .... which i know android is buit on top of...maybe hes equating android to linux...
 
 do developers sometimes have to pay fees to use a dev tool kit? whats an example of this?
 do devs have to "pay fees on the apps" that they build?
 
 what would be a "native" programmer? "The app developer API includes everything
that a “native” programmer would have
access to" ???

ok so there is such a thing as "raw android". it is our development environment and what the class is about. so Android is NOT synonymous with AndroidStudio. i thought it more like node or react, a framework. 

so at the end of this class i will be able to take a screen shot of a phone with an app that i built on it? nice!!!


the mainfest file is the place where the multple pieces of code are indicated so that they are connected together as the constituents parts of a single app

in android, attributes are stored in one place and logic in another. Executable code in one, resources in the other

the GUI is specified separately from the code in an XML file...???

separating logic from resources is needed to run the app on different devices... i guess modularizing the logic and layout separately then you can reuse the logic and just build the GUI

so if you had a good, responsive web page, and you didnt' want to build out a whole native app could you use a simple native app with a web viewing window? pros cons?

code obfuscation? really?


the terminology is trippy.

in android, an actiity is a UI for a thing a user can do. Like pick from a dropdown or fill out a form...its one of the important components in an android app. but there are other types of components. Background code, server calls, music, layouts....

in web code you have html for the bones, css for the skin and java for the brain. or maybe nervous system. in android you have, activities, services, receivers and providers...
